# nestjs-vite-monorepo-template

A monorepo template for building projects with Nest.js, React, Vite, and Turborepo. This template includes shared types using the `ts-rest` library for easy sharing of types between the API and frontend. 

## Features

- **Nest.js**: A progressive Node.js framework for building efficient, reliable, and scalable server-side applications.
- **React**: A JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
- **Vite**: A fast build tool and development server.
- **Turborepo**: A high-performance build system for JavaScript and TypeScript codebases.
- **Docker & Docker Compose**: Containerization and orchestration for development and production environments.
- **Shared Types**: Using `ts-rest` to share types between the API and frontend for consistent type safety.

## Project Structure

The project is organized as a monorepo using npm workspaces

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (>= 20.0.0)
- npm (>= 10.0.0)
- Docker
- Docker Compose

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/EugenioNhampossa/nestjs-vite-monorepo-template.git
    cd nestjs-vite-monorepo-template
    ```

2. Install dependencies:

    ```sh
    npm install
    ```

### Development

To start the development server, run:

```sh
npm run dev
```
This command will use Turborepo to run the development servers for both the Nest.js API and the React frontend.

### Building

To build the project, run:

```sh
npm run build
```
This command will use Turborepo to build both the Nest.js API and the React frontend.

### Starting

To start the application, run:

```sh
npm start
```
This command will start the Nest.js API, which serves the static files generated by Vite.

## Docker

*Build and Run with Docker Compose*

Build the Docker images:
```sh
docker-compose build
```

Run the containers:
```sh
docker-compose up
```
## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. 

